We have selected the theme
“Be a Champion of Truth!”
You may have heard
of the word “champion”
used in the context of sports.
What is a champion?
The word
can have different meanings.
The word is related
to the French word champ,
meaning “field.”
That word has its origin
in the Latin word campus,
also meaning “field”
or “battlefield.”
The Bible speaks of
a champion on a battlefield
in 1 Samuel 17:4:
“Then a champion came out
from the camps of the Philistines;
his name was Goliath.”
Goliath was a champion
for a wrong cause,
namely,
to take the lead in defeating
the ancient Israelites in battle.
In our modern time,
according to one definition,
a champion
is “an ardent defender
“or supporter of a cause
or another person.”
Christians today
are ardent defenders
and supporters of the truth.
The Watchtower
of January 15, 2012,
said on page 8:
“Other champions
of Bible truth rose up
in the centuries that followed.”
Years before,
The Watchtower said:
“This magazine
will never shrink in fear
from championing the truth!”
“The Watchtower
has been championing
‘the cause of Kingdom truth.’”
So, are you a champion?
In a sports competition,
only one individual
gets to be the champion.
But in the case
of true Christians,
all can be champions
of the truth.
All Christians
are to defend the truth
and become conquerors
—winners.
It’s necessary
to defend the truth
because in today’s world
truth is being attacked
and distorted.
We are surrounded
by a sea of lies
and misrepresentations.
How did such lies get started?
They started in the garden of Eden
when Satan told Eve lies.
Satan,
through his deceptive statements,
became “the father of the lie.”
All the problems in the world
—all calamities
(also your personal calamities),
all wars,
all diseases, all crimes,
all unhappiness,
sorrow, and death
—started with the original lies
in the garden of Eden.
Satan is “the father of the lie.”
But today there are
many “children” of the lie.
Every one of us is affected.
We are surrounded
by a sea of lies.
A lie is “a false statement
“deliberately presented
as being true;
a falsehood.”
A lie is the opposite
of the truth.
Lying involves
saying something incorrect
to a person who is entitled to know
the truth about a matter.
But there is also something
that is called a half-truth.
The Bible tells Christians
to be honest with each other.
“Now that you
have put away deceit,
. . . speak truth,”
wrote the apostle Paul
at Ephesians 4:25.
Lies and half-truths
undermine trust.
A German proverb says,
“Who lies once is not believed,
even if he says the truth.”
So we need to speak openly
and honestly with each other,
not withholding
bits of information
that could change
the perception of the listener
or mislead him.
As to lies,
there are different types.
Some politicians
have lied about matters
they wanted to keep secret.
Companies sometimes lie
in advertisements
regarding their products.
What about the news media?
Many try to report events truthfully.
But we should not be gullible
and believe
everything newspapers write
or everything we hear on radio
or see on television.
Then there are religious lies.
If Satan is called
“the father of the lie,”
then Babylon the Great,
the global empire of false religion,
can be called
the “mother” of the lie.
Individual false religions
could be called
“daughters” of the lie.
Some lie by saying that sinners
will get tormented in hell forever.
Others lie by saying,
“Once saved, always saved.”
Again, others lie
by saying that the earth
will be burned up
on Judgment Day
and all good people
will go to heaven.
Some worship idols.
Paul wrote at Romans 1:25:
“They exchanged
the truth of God for the lie
“and venerated
and rendered sacred service
to the creation
rather than the Creator.”
Then there are many lies
of a personal nature
that people express
in everyday life.
A businessman
may get a phone call
but tell his secretary
to answer the caller
by saying he is not in.
This may be considered
a small lie.
There are small lies,
big lies,
and malicious lies.
A child may have broken something
but when asked initially,
out of fear of punishment,
denies having done it.
This does not make the child
a malicious liar.
In contrast,
what if an entrepreneur
tells his bookkeeper
to falsify the entries
in the books
in order to save on taxes?
This lying to the tax office
is certainly a serious lie.
It is a deliberate attempt
to mislead somebody
that has the right to know.
It also robs the government
of what they have established
as legal income.
We can see
that not all lies are the same;
there are small lies, big lies,
and malicious lies.
Satan is a malicious liar.
He is the champion of the lie.
Since Jehovah hates liars,
we should avoid all lies,
not just big or malicious lies.
But can we find the truth?
Some say, “Truth is relative.”
It is like saying,
“This is truth for you,
and this is truth for me.”
This claim is not logical
when it comes to religious truth.
Either God is a Trinity
or he’s not.
Either the soul is mortal
or it is not.
Either there is a future paradise
on earth or there is not.
Either homosexuality
is acceptable to God or it is not.
Either participating in wars
is permissible or it is not.
Truth is definite, not relative,
because Jehovah conveyed
the truth to his servants.
Psalm 43:3 says:
“Send out your light and your truth.”
Jehovah is a Revealer of truth.
One of several reasons
why Jesus came into the world
was to “witness to the truth.”
At John 18:37b,
he said:
“For this I have been born,
“and for this
I have come into the world,
“that I should bear witness
to the truth.
Everyone who is on the side
of the truth listens to my voice.”
So if we listen to Jesus,
or read in the Bible
what he taught,
we can learn the truth.
Jesus was the personification
of the truth.
He said: “I am the way
and the truth and the life.”
We can find out what the truth is
by diligently studying the Bible.
Truth is that which is a fact.
For true Christians,
the entire text
of the Hebrew
and Christian Greek Scriptures
constitutes the truth.
Psalm 119:160
says of Jehovah:
‘The essence
of your word is truth.’
That is why
it is good to do
daily Bible reading
with meditation
and weekly family worship.
At Matthew 24:45-47, we read
that for the time of the end,
Jesus would appoint
a “faithful and discreet slave,”
or Governing Body,
to explain the Bible
to His followers
and help them to grow
in understanding of the truth.
Whereas Jesus’ teachings
and the written Word of God
are inspired,
“the faithful and discreet slave”
is not inspired,
although it champions the truth.
Nevertheless, the faithful slave
provides spiritual food.
Whereas in the first century
there was supernatural knowledge
available for apostles
and Bible writers,
in the time of the end,
Jehovah does not bestow
this miraculous gift anymore,
as explained
at 1 Corinthians 13:8.
Although there is
no divine inspiration today,
still Jesus leads
his people progressively
through the services
of the faithful slave.
Jesus trusts
that the imperfect faithful slave
will do its best
to convey spiritual food.
Do you also trust the slave?
Whereas the truth
of God’s Word does not change,
our understanding
of the truth does change
because we
are not perfect yet.
We understand more
about the truth today
than Christians
in the first century.
Do we keep up with the progressive
understanding of truth?
Daniel was told:
“Many will rove about,
and the true knowledge
will become abundant.”
This is a gradual process.
We are still roving about.
During the Millennium,
Jehovah will reveal
additional truths to mankind.
At Revelation 20:12,
it mentions scrolls
that will be opened.
The apostle John reports
that the dead are to be “judged
“out of those things
written in the scrolls
according to their deeds.”
Evidently, then,
these scrolls will contain
additional information for mankind
during the thousand years.
It stands to reason
that after the end of the Millennium,
there will be
additional truths to learn.
Still,
according to Ecclesiastes
chapter 3, verse 11:
“Mankind will never find out
the work
that the true God has made.”
But how do we know
we have the truth?
At Pentecost 33
of our Common Era,
true Christians
numbered only about 3,000.
Today, we are millions.
And on average,
every weekend
more than 5,000
are getting baptized.
But this in itself
is not proof
that we have the truth.
Truth is not measured
in numbers.
Why do we know
we have the truth?
For one,
because we remain
in Jesus’ teaching,
John 8:31.
Second,
we know we have the truth
because of the deep bond of love
for each other, John 13:35.
Third, we know we have the truth
because our conduct
adheres
to the high moral standards of truth,
John 15:10.
Fourth,
we know we have the truth
because we remain neutral
in the controversies of the world,
as Jesus advised
at John 17:14.
Fifth,
we know we have the truth
because we are
God’s name people.
Acts 15:14 speaks
of “a people for his name.”
Jesus said:
“The truth will set you free.”
It sets us free from fears
—like the fear of death,
fear of the future,
and an exaggerated fear of man.
It also sets us free
from false teachings,
from spiritism,
and from astrology and magic.
It frees us from immorality
and its consequences.
There are
no other people on earth
that are
as spiritually free as we are.
Do we appreciate that freedom?
Truth leads to freedom.
Second Corinthians 3:17 says:
“Where the spirit of Jehovah is,
there is freedom.”
The truth penetrates schools.
How so?
By means of our children
who preach the truth
to classmates and to teachers.
Do you go to school?
Do you champion
the truth at school?
How can you do this?
You do this not only by preaching
but also by your conduct,
by your dress and grooming,
and by taking a stand for the truth
when others want you
to participate
in unchristian practices.
You also champion the truth
by remaining honest
and not cheating
on your exams.
And Jehovah
will love you for that.
The truth
also penetrates prisons.
Reports have come in
from many countries
telling of the good work
brothers are doing
in contacting prisoners
in various prisons,
helping some to rehabilitate
their lives spiritually.
In a number of such institutions,
regular meetings are being held
and several prisoners
have studied to the point
of dedication and baptism.
The truth penetrates
even walls of monasteries.
In Mexico, in 2009,
a nun was baptized who,
because of the truth,
had left
her monastery and order,
although she was
the mother superior.
The world
is in utter confusion.
What a blessing
to know the truth!
We rejoice in it!
We have the truth on our lips.
We have the truth around our hips.
Ephesians chapter 6
says that “the belt of truth”
is fastened around our waists.
We are ready to teach it.
We talk the truth,
and we walk in the truth.
Those who continue to walk
in the truth
will walk in it forever.
Help your students
to love the truth
and to live the truth but,
if necessary,
to be willing to die
for the truth and for Jehovah.
The truth is invincible
and will conquer
this wicked world.
In some countries,
we may have many enemies
who may want to silence us.
But the apostle Paul said
at 2 Corinthians 13:8:
“For we can do nothing
against the truth.”
Neither can our enemies
suppress the truth.
Do we appreciate
that we have the truth
—the only truth?
Is this arrogant to say?
By no means!
It would be a sin
if we would not say so.
Jesus was not arrogant
when he said:
‘I am the truth.’
To know the truth
is not enough.
We need to champion it.
There are still
many lovers of truth out there;
search for them.
Who will help you
in your search?
According to John 4:23,
Jesus said that Jehovah
is searching for ones
that want to worship in truth.
The majority
will not listen to the truth
because ‘they love the darkness
rather than the light.’
The truth may expose
their sinful conduct,
and they
may not have the humility
to want
to repent and change.
We still have to preach to them
—to warn them.
Ezekiel was told:
“You must warn them from me.”
The principle applies to us as well.
Paul speaks of “the sword
of . . . God’s word.”
Use it well
to champion the truth.
Train your students
to be good defenders of it as well.
The time will come
in Paradise after the final test
when it will not be necessary
to champion,
or defend, the truth,
because nobody
will attack it anymore.
Right now,
whether we are adults,
teenagers, or children,
let us follow and imitate Jesus
—the greatest Champion of truth!
To that end,
keep studying the truth.
Keep spreading the truth.
Keep loving the truth
and Jehovah, the God of truth.
Hold fast to the truth
as to a lifeline
—as this is what it is!
By staying faithful,
whether you survive Armageddon
or are resurrected in Paradise,
you will be a victorious
champion of the truth!